= Troubleshooting =


= Known problems: =


= How to help =

The development of Doxygen highly depends on your input!
If you are trying Doxygen let me know what you think of it (do you miss certain features?). Even if you decide not to use it, please let me know why.
= How to report a bug =

Bugs are tracked in GNOME's [http://bugzilla.gnome.org bugzilla] database. Before submitting a [http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=doxygen new bug] , first [http://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?product=doxygen&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=NEEDINFO&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_status=VERIFIED&email1=&emailtype1=substring&emailassigned_to1=1&email2=&emailtype2=substring&emailreporter2=1&changedin=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&short_desc=&short_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&bug_file_loc=&bug_file_loc_type=substring&status_whiteboard=&status_whiteboard_type=substring&keywords=&keywords_type=anywords&op_sys_details=&op_sys_details_type=substring&version_details=&version_details_type=substring&cmdtype=doit&namedcmd=gnome-libs+past+20+days&newqueryname=&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&form_name=query check] if the same bug has already been submitted by others. If you believe you have found a new bug, please [http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=doxygen file it] .
If you are unsure whether or not something is a bug, please ask help on the [http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=5971 users mailing list] first (subscription is required).
If you send only a (vague) description of a bug, you are usually not very helpful and it will cost me much more time to figure out what you mean. In the worst-case your bug report may even be completely ignored by me, so always try to include the following information in your bug report:
You can (and are encouraged to) add a patch for a bug. If you do so please use PATCH as a keyword in the bug entry form.
If you have ideas how to fix existing bugs and limitations please discuss them on the [http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=5971 developers mailing list] (subscription required). Patches can also be sent directly to [mailto:dimitri@stack.nl dimitri@stack.nl] if you prefer not to send them via the bug tracker or mailing list.
For patches please use "diff -uN" or include the files you modified. If you send more than one file please tar or zip everything, so I only have to save and download one file.

