= Doxygen History =

  = Version 1.2.0 =
 
  = Major new features: =
 
 
 *  Support for RTF output.
 *  Using the dot tool of the AT&T's GraphViz package, doxygen can now generate inheritance diagrams, collaboration diagrams, include dependency graphs, included by graphs and graphical inheritance overviews.
 *  Function arguments can now be documented with separate comment blocks.
 *  Initializers and macro definitions are now included in the documentation.
 *  Variables and typedefs are now put in their own section.
 *  Old configuration files can be upgraded using the -u option without loosing any changes.
 *  Using the \if and \endif commands, doxygen can conditionally include documentation blocks.
 *  Added Doc++ like support for member grouping.
 *  Doxygen now has a GUI front-end called doxywizard (based on Qt-2.1)
 *  All info about configuration options is now concentrated in a new tool called configgen. This tool can generate the configuration parser and GUI front-end from source templates.
 *  Better support for the using keyword.
 *  New transparent mini logo that is put in the footer of all HTML pages.
 *  Internationalization support for the Polish, Portuguese and Croatian language.
 *  Todo list support.
 *  If the source browser is enabled, for a function, a list of function whose implementation calls that function, is generated.
 *  All source code fragments are now syntax highlighted in the HTML output. The colors can be changed using cascading style sheets.
 
  = Version 1.0.0 =
 
  = Major new features: =
 
 
 *  Support for templates and namespaces.
 *  Internationalization support. Currently supported languages are: English, Czech, German, Spanish, Finnish, French, Italian, Japanese, Dutch, and Swedish.
 *  Automatic generation of inheritance diagrams for sub and super classes.
 *  Support for man page, compressed HTML help, and hyperlinked PDF output.
 *  Cross-referencing documentation with source code and source inlining.
 *  LaTeX formulas can be included in the documentation.
 *  Support for parsing Corba and Microsoft IDL.
 *  Images can be included in the documentation.
 *  Improved parsing and preprocessing.
 
  = Version 0.4 =
 
  = Major new features: =
 
 
 *  LaTeX output generation.
 *  Full JavaDoc support.
 *  Build-in C-preprocessor for correct conditional parsing of source code that is read by Doxygen.
 *  Build-in HTML to LaTeX converter. This allows you to use HTML tags in your documentation, while doxygen still generates proper LaTeX output.
 *  Many new commands (there are now more than 60!) to document more entities, to make the documentation look nicer, and to include examples or pieces of examples.
 *  Enum types, enum values, typedefs, #defines, and files can now be documented.
 *  Completely new documentation, that is now generated by Doxygen.
 *  A lot of small examples are now included.
 
  = Version 0.3 =
 
  = Major new features: =
 
 
 *  A PHP based search engine that allows you to search through the generated documentation.
 *  A configuration file instead of command-line options. A default configuration file can be generated by  [doxygen_usage.html doxygen]  .
 *  Added an option to generate output for undocumented classes.
 *  Added an option to generate output for private members.
 *  Every page now contains a condensed index page, allowing much faster navigation through the documentation.
 *  Global and member variables can now be documented.
 *  A project name can now given, which will be included in the documentation.
 
  = Version 0.2 =
 
  = Major new features: =
 
 
 *  Blocks of code are now parsed. Function calls and variables are replaced by links to their documentation if possible.
 *  Special example documentation block added. This can be used to provide cross references between the documentation and some example code.
 *  Documentation blocks can now be placed inside the body of a class.
 *  Documentation blocks with line range may now be created using special  `//!`  C++ line comments.
 *  Unrelated members can now be documented. A page containing a list of these members is generated.
 *  Added an  `\include`  command to insert blocks of source code into the documentation.
 *  Warnings are generated for members that are undocumented.
 *  You can now specify your own HTML headers and footers for the generated pages.
 *  Option added to generated indices containing all external classes instead of only the used ones.
 
  = Version 0.1 =
 
 Initial version.
 